Triage Kibana Health (#5112)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/kibana/access.md

% cf (../../deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/access.md#status) 

The status page displays information about the server resource usage and installed plugins. It only reports for the individual responding {{kib}} instance.

> To view the {{kib}} status page, use the status page. For example, `localhost:5601/status`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view {{kib}}'s status, use the `status` endpoint. For example, `localhost:5601/status`.
```
Just adding one suggestion here so that we avoid repeating "status page".

:::{image} /troubleshoot/images/kibana-kibana-status-page-7_14_0.png
:alt: Kibana server status page
:screenshot:
:::

For JSON-formatted server status details, use the [{{kib}} current status API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v9/operation/operation-get-status). For example, `localhost:5601/api/status`.

## Triage {{kib}} health [access-triage]

The following steps demonstrate a typical investigative flow. It assumes the [{{kib}} current status API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v9/operation/operation-get-status) is saved locally as `kibana_status.json`.

1. Check the Kibana Status

>    The UI will report "Kibana status is" and then the status. Using third-party tool [JQ](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/), you can see this in the API output by running:

Reviewer 2: you use this tool in basically every step. consider listing it in the overview for the procedure instead, and not linking / referring to it as a third party tool in the steps

   ```bash
   cat kibana_status.json | jq '{ overall: .status.overall.level }'
   ```
    
2. Check core dependencies

  The UI will report "Plugin Status" with a list of plugins. The core plugins prefix `core`. Using third-party tool [JQ](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/), you can check these in the API output by running:

  ```bash
  cat kibana_status.json | jq -r '.status.core|{ elasticsearch: .elasticsearch.level, savedObjects: .savedObjects.level }'
  ```

>   These two core dependencies `elasticsearch` and `savedObjects` need to be healthy before reviewing any further plugins. If the connection to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before you review any further plugins, check that the `elasticsearch` and `savedObjects` are healthy and resolve any issues:
```

  
  * {{es}} is unhealthy, refer to [](/troubleshoot/kibana/error-server-not-ready.md).
  * Saved Objects is unhealthy, refer to [](/troubleshoot/kibana/migration-failures.md).

3. Check non-core plugins

  The UI "Plugin Status" list will report the other plugins running on the instance. Plugins can be dependent upon each other. You should first check the health of the common underlying plugins: `reporting`, `ruleRegistry`, `savedObjects`, `security`, and `taskManager`. Using third-party tool [JQ](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/), you can check these in the API output by running:

  ```bash

>   cat kibana_status.json | jq -rc '.status.plugins|to_entries[]|select(.key=="taskManager" or .key=="savedObjects" or .key=="security" or .key=="reporting" or .key=="ruleRegistry" or .key=="alerting") |{plugin:.key, status:.value.level, reason:.value.summary}'

Reviewer 2: the command has alerting but the list above does not

:alt: Kibana server status page
:screenshot:
:::

For JSON-formatted server status details, use the [{{kib}} current status API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v9/operation/operation-get-status). For example, `localhost:5601/api/status`.

## Triage {{kib}} health using the status API [access-triage]

The following steps demonstrate a typical investigative flow. It assumes the [{{kib}} current status API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v9/operation/operation-get-status) is saved locally as `kibana_status.json` and uses third-party tool [JQ](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) as a JSON processor.

1. Check the overall status.

   The UI will report "Kibana status is" and then the status. You can see this in the API output by running:

   ```bash
   cat kibana_status.json | jq '{ overall: .status.overall.level }'
   ```
    
2. Check core dependencies.

    The UI will report "Plugin Status" with a list of plugins. The core plugins prefix `core`. You can check these in the API output by running the following command:

  ```bash
  cat kibana_status.json | jq -r '.status.core|{ elasticsearch: .elasticsearch.level, savedObjects: .savedObjects.level }'
  ```

>     Before you review any further plugins, check that the `elasticsearch` and `savedObjects` are healthy and resolve any issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Before you review any further plugins, check that the `elasticsearch` and `savedObjects` are healthy and resolve any issues:
```
